# Seeing the World as the Shell Sees It

## Expansion

echo is a shell builtin that performs a very simple task. It prints its text arguments on standard output.  
 `echo this is a test`  
 `this is a test`   
 That's pretty straightforward. Any argument passed to echo gets displayed. Let's try another example.  
  `echo *`  
  `Desktop Documents ls-output.txt Music Pictures Public Templates 
   Videos`  
   
   ### Pathname Expansion
   The mechanism by which wildcards work is called pathname expansion. If we try some of the techniques that we employed in earlier chapters, we will see that they are really expansions. Given a home directory that looks like this:    
   `ls`     
   `Desktop ls-output.txt Pictures Templates Documents Music Public Videos`  
   Examples:    
    `echo D*`   
    `Desktop Documents`    
    `echo *s`   
    `Documents Pictures Templates Videos`   
    `echo [[:upper:]]*`     
    `Desktop Documents Music Pictures Public Templates Videos`  
    ` echo /usr/*/share`    
    ` /usr/kerberos/share /usr/local/share`     
    
   #### Pathname Expansion of Hidden Files   
    
    `echo *`    
    `echo .*`    
    `ls -d .* | less`    
    `echo .[!.]*`    
    `ls -A`
    
    
   ### Tilde Expansion
   
   As we may recall from our introduction to the cd command, the tilde character (~) has a special meaning. When used at the beginning of a word, it expands into the name of the home directory of the named user or, if no user is named, the home directory of the current user.    
   `echo ~`     
   
  #### Arithmetic Expansion
  
  The shell allows arithmetic to be performed by expansion. This allows us to use the shell
  prompt as a calculator.   
  `echo $((2 + 2))`     
  Arithmetic expansion uses the following form:     
  $((expression))   
  where expression is an arithmetic expression consisting of values and arithmetic operators.
  
  | operator | description |
  |---|---|
  | + | Addition |
  | - | Subtraction |
  | * | Multiplication |
  | / | Division (but remember, since expansion supports only integer arithmetic, results are integers). |
  | % | Modulo, which simply means “remainder.” |
  | ** | Exponentiation |
  
  For example, to multiply 5 squared by 3:  
  ` echo $(($((5**2)) * 3))`   
   
  Single parentheses may be used to group multiple subexpressions. With this technique, we can rewrite the previous example and get the same result using a single expansion instead of two.   
  ` echo $(((5**2) * 3))`   
  
  Here is an example using the division and remainder operators. Notice the effect of integer division.    
  ` echo Five divided by two equals $((5/2))`   
  `  echo with $((5%2)) left over.`   
  
  #### Brace Expansion
  
  Perhaps the strangest expansion is called brace expansion. With it, we can create multiple text strings from a pattern containing braces.     
  `$ echo Front-{A,B,C}-Back`   
  `Front-A-Back Front-B-Back Front-C-Back`  
  
  Patterns to be brace expanded may contain a leading portion called a preamble and a trailing portion called a postscript. The brace expression itself may contain either a comma-separated list of strings or a range of integers or single characters. The pattern may not contain unquoted whitespace.      
  `echo Number_{1..5}`  
  `Number_1 Number_2 Number_3 Number_4 Number_5`    
  `$ echo {01..15}`    
  `01 02 03 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 13 14 15`    
  `$ echo {001..15}`    
  `001 002 003 004 005 006 007 008 009 010 011 012 013 014 015`    
  `$ echo {Z..A}`    
  `Z Y X W V U T S R Q P O N M L K J I H G F E D C B A`    
  ` echo a{A{1,2},B{3,4}}b`    
  `aA1b aA2b aB3b aB4b`    
  
  So, what is this good for? The most common application is to make lists of files or directories to be created.   
  ` mkdir Photos`   
  ` cd Photos`   
  ` mkdir {2007..2009}-{01..12}`   
  